Lecture 1 – React Basics (Namaste React)


✅ What is React? Why is it called ‘React’?
React is a JavaScript Library used for building user interfaces, especially for single-page applications.
The name ‘React’ was chosen because it enables developers to "react" to changes in application state and data, and automatically update the User Interface (UI) in a declarative and efficient way.


✅ What is a Library?
A Library is a collection of pre-written code snippets that can be reused to perform specific tasks.
Libraries can be plugged into your code as needed.
They help in faster development and reduce the chances of errors.
🧩 Examples: React, jQuery


✅ What is a Framework?
A Framework provides a structured foundation for building applications or websites.
It dictates how you should structure your code.
Offers more rigid rules and workflows.
🧩 Examples: Angular, Vue



✅ Similarities between Library and Framework:
Both are created by third parties.
They help solve common problems.
Both improve productivity and code quality.



✅ Difference between Library and Framework:
Feature	Library	Framework
Control	Developer is in control – calls library functions as needed.	Framework is in control – it calls the developer's code.
Flexibility	More flexible	Less flexible
Example	React	Angular
🎯 Key Point: The difference lies in Inversion of Control.



✅ What is Emmet?
Emmet is a toolkit for web developers that expands short expressions into complete HTML/CSS code.



✅ What is crossorigin in script tag?
The crossorigin attribute in a script tag enables Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS).
It allows external scripts (from another domain) to access resources or make HTTP requests securely.
Important when loading JavaScript files from a different origin (like CDN).



✅ What does {} mean in JSX?
In React, curly braces {} are used to embed JavaScript expressions inside JSX.
Inside React.createElement, {} is used to pass props like id, className, etc.
📌 Example:
jsx
Copy
Edit
React.createElement("h1", { id: "title", className: "header" }, "Hello")
🛑 NOTE: React will overwrite everything inside the root DOM node. Whatever is passed to render() will replace the content inside #root.

